---
source: https://www.dcsoccerclub.org/playmetrics-help
page: playmetrics-help
category: registration-fees
---

playmetrics help

 Create an Account 1) CREATE ACCOUNT: Click Here to create your family account on Playmetrics, even if it is only for you as a volunteer (considered the "player") 2) VERIFY ACCOUNT: Once you create an account, you will be sent an email to verify your account. Click the “Verify Account” link in the email. You will then be prompted to enter your name and phone number. Please enter your phone number to allow you to receive program/team communication via SMS, and for password resets.3) ADD PLAYERS: After verifying your account, you will be prompted to add players to the account. Please add all family members that may now or in the future be registered with DC Soccer Club. Enter each player’s name and correct date of birth. If the parent or guardian would register for any of our future adult programs or as a volunteer, they should also be added as a “player” with the correct date of birth. Note: Program registrations are based on date of birth, so only players in your account who are eligible will appear during registration.4) DOWNLOAD THE APP: Download the mobile PlayMetrics app on iOS and/or Android. This allows you to access everything from the convenience of your phone at all times.5) SET COMMUNICATION SETTINGS: Now that your account is created, you can set how you receive emails, SMS text messages, and push notifications via the mobile app. When you're logged into your account on mobile, simply tap "Player Contact" in the upper left-hand corner, then tap "Account”, and then tap "Settings.” Here you can change your communication preferences by checking and unchecking the appropriate boxes based on the notifications you would like to receive. We are asking all families to check the SMS box so you may receive a text alert of important notes, such as inclement weather, when urgency is needed.6) ADD CONTACTS: Please add any family members that would need access to your player’s schedule/account. PlayMetrics How-TosCLICK HERE for step-by-step instructions for the most frequently asked questions about our registration and communication platform, PlayMetrics. If you have a question outside of the FAQs, please contact support@playmetrics.com.  Adding Additional Contacts to your AccountSync Team Calendar with Personal CalendarUpdate Your Credit Card on FileManage Your Registrations and BillingSetting Your Communication PreferencesUpdate Your Email AddressUpdate Your Mailing AddressUpdate Your Name and Phone NumberUpdate Your Player’s Profile InformationRegister for a ProgramAdding the PlayMetrics app to your mobile deviceRequest Financial Aid How to Use Playmetrics as a Player or Parent - Overview
