---
source: https://www.dcsoccerclub.org/travel-program-and-tryout-faqs
page: travel-program-and-tryout-faqs
---

TRAVEL PROGRAM AND TRYOUTS - FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS 
 
 
 
 
 At what age can players be considered for the travel program? Our travel program begins at U8 and continues to run through U19. Beginning in the 2026-2027 season, Travel age groups will now be based on the age-group cutoff of August 1-July 31, not birth years (January 1-December 31). For rising U8 players in the 2026-2027 travel season, eligibility will be August 1, 2018 - July 31, 2019. What is the eligibility by each age group for the 2026-2027 season?US Soccer has moved from January 1-December 31 (birth years) to the cutoff of August 1-July 31 for  each age group beginning in the 2026-2027 season. Below is the eligibility for each age group for the 2026-2027 season: U8: players born between August 1, 2018 - July 31, 2019U9: players born between August 1, 2017 - July 31, 2018U10: players born between August 1, 2016 - July 31, 2017U11: players born between August 1, 2015 - July 31, 2016U12: players born between August 1, 2014 - July 31, 2015U13: players born between August 1, 2013 - July 31, 2014U14: players born between August 1, 2012 - July 31, 2013U15: players born between August 1, 2011 - July 31, 2012U16: players born between August 1, 2010 - July 31, 2011U17: players born between August 1, 2009 - July 31, 2010U19: players born between August 1, 2007 - July 31, 2009Can players be placed on teams outside of their eligible school year?Players will register for the Academy ID sessions or Travel Tryouts according to their eligible age band of  August 1-July 31.  DC Soccer Club players are expected to compete in their designated age group under the age group  cut-off.In exceptional cases, coaches and technical staff may determine a player to play up an age group because it is developmentally appropriate and in the best interest of that player’s development based on skill level, maturity and overall development needs.Are there any requirements to try out or to be selected to a team?Registration is free and open to all players. In many age groups, we have between 2-5 teams that participate in leagues at various competitive levels. The goal of player placement during our ID Sessions and Tryouts is to have all players placed on teams at the level best suited for their development, where they have balanced opportunities to successfully contribute and be challenged to aid in their growth.  For our  Academy ID Sessions, all DC Soccer Cub current Academy players will attend. DCSC players currently playing on other travel  levels must be invited by their coach or the technical staff to register and attend. Academy ID Sessions are open to all players from outside of the club. All players MUST register for tryouts to be selected to a team.Do players have to register or can they just show up for the try out?All players attending tryouts (new and current) MUST register as it is the only way to ensure evaluation and communication of selection. Players should register ahead of the tryout. Any players not registered at the field will need to take the time at the field to register, which can potentially limit their time trying out.Do I register for ID Sessions (Academy Level) or Travel Tryouts?ID Sessions are for the top level Academy teams and will begin in March. Please note, these teams may not be immediately formed after an ID session. ID Sessions are used as an opportunity for staff to identify and evaluate talent both internally (current DCSC players) and externally (players from outside clubs who are interested in playing for DCSC). Therefore, players should not expect communication about offers, roster spots, playing level, team formation, etc. at the conclusion of an Academy ID Session. Our club may host additional Academy ID Sessions for specific age groups in the spring to work through the identification process when forming teams.  The rest of the travel teams below the Academy level will be held as Travel Tryouts by age group, where players selected from the tryout will be placed on the various level teams according to their current ability.Players not currently playing in DC Soccer Club’s travel program may register for either or both Academy ID sessions and Travel Tryouts. For players currently in DCSC’s travel program: Our travel program has been tracking individual player development on every team and we use this tracking system to properly evaluate players throughout the year. This typically offers a more comprehensive indication of the individual’s current competitive level, and is shared amongst the technical staff and age group directors to more accurately place players within our travel program.The vast majority of players interested in our travel program will attend our Travel Tryouts, which is held by age group. As we have several teams in each age group, these tryouts aim to select players and place them on the appropriate level team in the age group based on their current development. These tryouts will take place in April and May.What if my player has a conflict with the tryout schedule? We understand sometimes an injury, or prior important commitment, may present a challenge to attend the scheduled ID session or tryout. Please contact Technical Director Edu de Souza  about the possibility to attend a training session for evaluation.
